most four-wheelers know that an air
Locker is an amazing traction aid that
will transform any average fall drive
into a serious and capable off-road
vehicle what many might not know though
is that you can no longer rely on the
fact that the world's best designed a
locking differential system will always
be the strongest while ARB continues to
manufacture the original and stilts
strongest air Locker available a flood
of Chinese copies have come onto the
market undermining the consumers faith
in this amazing product to find out more
we have traveled to the eastern suburbs
of Melbourne Australia and the ARB head
office with the original ARB air Locker
is designed manufactured and tested
I could feel you real whining
like we were in
we felt that the home of the air Locker
was the ideal place but these Chinese
cottage to the task and see how you the
purchaser to be duped
if you unsuspectingly purchased one of
these copies or felt the saving a few
pennies was a good idea to really put
any mechanical device to the test a
professionally built destructive test
rig is the way to go and the ARB air
Locker district is fully equipped with
force versus displacement data recording
equipment and a minutely controlled
hydraulic press with an ARB air Locker
securely mounted and an off-the-shelf
toyota axial locked into the rig watch
how much twist can be applied by the
chain but also watch out for the
impressive result
under excessive force the weakest point
is clearly obvious with the excellent
self failing and this type of regular
testing highlights one of the key design
factors of all of the ARB air lockers
and that is that they all must be the
strongest part of the complete dip
assembly this ensures that every
originally manufactured ARB air Locker
is built tucked to survive the rigors of
any off-road situation but we already
know that and we are here to see how
these non-australian
air Locker copies stand up to the test
on first appearances they look the goods
but a trained eye and closer inspection
reveals a worrying sign in surface
finish and overall construction such as
how do they perform on the test bench
using all of the same settings and an
identical factory Toyota axle the
destructive test begins like any other
and whilst I did have some expectation
of the outcome the extent and intensity
of the damage didn't surprise me
whilst the axle remained virtually
undamaged the fake air Locker was
totally destroyed from the side gears to
the carrier and that would be the end of
anybody's off-road weekend
there is no doubt that the ARB air
Locker is the world's best traction aid
but you need to ensure that you get
yourself the real deal and that is the
australian-made and originals ARB air
Locker